File not included rule (#58)
whiteclarkegroup/liquibase-linter: docs/rules/file-not-included.md

---
title: file-not-included
---

## Why?

Although generally uncommon, sometimes including a change log in the root deltas change log is forgotten.

The `file-not-included` rule will fail if any file in the specified target directories were not included.

> The specified directory **is** searched recursively. The check is also only performed against files which have

Reviewer: Better placement of emphasis

```suggestion
The specified directory is _searched recursively_. The check is also only performed against files which have
```

the same file extension as the root deltas change log. For example, if you are using `xml` change logs, a `*.json`
file would be ignored.

## Options

> `values` - (array of strings) list of relative paths to include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`values` - (array of strings) list of paths relative to the working directory Liquibase is being run from that should be checked for not-included files
```

Reviewer: What do we do if no `values` provided? From the code looks like we don't support that, which I think is fine. Should we throw a meaningful exception in that case?

I think it would also be worth highlighting why in the docs - i.e. too much chance of false positives with other bits of XML/JSON/YAML, potential usages of `includeAll` etc

Author: Addressed slightly tweaked your suggestion in the end
